# vendingmachine_java

                                                                                                              Valentine Ezenwa
                                                                                                                  08/02/2017
Vending Machine Project

1.	General Program Design: This program was designed in order to simulate a regular vending machine that costumers use in order to purchase items that have been already installed into the vending machine. The data structure used in order to install items into the vending machine was arrays. Also, the vending machine is initially installed with specific amount of money that can be used to give change back to the costumer. Furthermore, the money inserted by the costumer into the vending machine is directed into the same amount of money value that was present in the vending machine. Again, arrays is the type of data structure used to carry out this process. Functionality of my classes were mainly divided into two parts: the main class which was the VendingMachineSimulation class and the subclass which was the VendingMachine class. The main class mainly had the main menu of the vending machine and methods used in the subclass. The subclass had the description (carrying out) of the transaction between the costumer and the vending machine. Commands were processed using the letters that were displayed on the main menu of the vending machine. This type of command was mainly used for the main class. As for the subclass, the command used varied according to what the user wanted to buy and the amount of money the costumer had available. In general, the costumer had to type in letters words instead of numbers to carry out the specific command of interest.

2.	A number of alternative approaches were used to conduct this transaction between the costumer and vending machine. One of them is using radio buttons to display the vending machine options. Even though this seemed like a very neat way to select the items to be purchased, it seemed easier a lot more complicated to create an array in order to allow the owner (programmer) to fill the vending machine with different items conveniently. Also, calculating the change and having the change amount be fixed so that the costumer cannot change the automated change value was challenging. As a result, the use of radio buttons was rejected. Another approach that was rejected was using an arraylist instead of regular array. This process especially the syntax was more challenging and hence was discarded after failure to fully grasp how to go about using an arraylist data structure.

3.	 While doing this project, I learned how vending machines function internally from the programming point of view. This gave me a glimpse of what programmers go through in order to to create a functional vending machine that is able to carry out a transaction with a costumer. I say it was a glimpse because for this program we were not required to connect the dispense process the machine normally undergoes wherein an item is to be dropped from the stack that is already on the vending machine to the bottom of it so the costumer can pick it up. Another tricky process we were responsible for was allowing the user to use a bank card. For the vending machine I have used, the machine do not allow the costumer to insert money values that are less twenty five cents which is surprising given that it is not that hard to program. This might be one of few things I would like to change if I was to develop a program for a vending machine. This is because many people who do not like to hold on to their coins might be inclined to use the vending machine more often which brings in more money to the owner.
